Hello and welcome back.
In this lesson, we are going to make use of the new skill which we created last lesson,
where we gave Codex the skill to use Frida binary analysis.
And we are going to use that skill to solve crackme1.
If you remember, crackme1 is a command-line crackme which we created using Codex.
To refresh your memory, we are going to run this one more time. So head over to my crackmes folder,
open the command-line terminal, and run crackme1. So it asks you to enter the serial number.
If I enter one two three four five six and hit Enter, it tells me wrong serial. So we are going
to use this skill now, Frida binary analysis skill, which we created and which we put in this folder,
AI skills. So let us now start Codex. We create a new chat and close the sidebar.
Here we set the GPT to the highest model, which is GPT-5.5 at time of recording.
And for the reasoning effort, we set it to extra high. Then we give it the path to this skill.
Skill, right-click and copy as path. And in here, we ask it to read this skill and
paste the skill file location, then analyze the crackme.
So in crackme, we also get the path location, right-click, copy as path, then paste it here.
Analyze this to look for string compare functions. So we know that when we enter
a string, it will definitely compare to the real actual serial number. So it has
to use some kind of function to do that. So that's why we ask it to analyze to
look for string compare functions, then let me know when the program runs.
It asks me to input some string.
It then compares the string with some other constant string.
And if it does not match, it prints the message wrong serial.
So this is the background context.
Read this skill, then analyze this crackme to look for string compare functions. When
the program runs, it asks me to input some string. It then compares the string
with some other constant string. And if it does not match, it prints the message
wrong serial. If you are unsure of anything, ask me, and then click Go. It has started
with its job. And surprisingly, even though the skill file is Frida binary
analysis, it still uses radare2. It is okay. Let's see what happens, and again, it
has already solved it by getting the comparison parameter, and it found that
this is the actual serial it is comparing with, and this we already solved
previously using radare2. And it helpfully tells us the serial itself is this, and the serial check
path as well. All right, so now let us try an experiment. We'll ask it if you can use Frida
tools to solve this. Could you use Frida tools instead of radare2, maybe put a hook on
the relevant functions? Click Go. So it has understood what I need, and now it is
looking at the Frida tools and creating a small trace script. Now it is going to
write the agent hook and driver. It experimented with some scripts and made
some adjustments, and now it is trying the final run. So finally, it gave the report.
It says that it has hooked the runtime modules and showed us some of these
offsets. And when Frida ran, it showed the expected serial in memory. So again,
we managed to use Frida to solve this, and this is the serial number. So let's
test it now. We will copy this, and then we run this crackme1 again, and we
paste the serial, and correct, congrats. So it works, and here is the remaining report. So as you can
see, if we had, if you were to do this manually with Frida, we would probably have a lot of errors,
a lot of problems. But using Codex, it is so easy. We don't have to figure out all the errors.
Codex can fix it for us. So this is the power of using AI in reverse engineering. So that's all for
this video. Thank you for watching.